



## Surnames beginning with N {-}

**Name:**  Neve de Mevergnies

**Supervisor:**  

**Title:** 

**Abstract:** Sharing data has many benefits. However, data sharing rates remain low, for the most part well below 50%. A variety of interventions encouraging data sharing have been proposed. We focus here on editorial policies. Kidwell et al. (2016) assessed the impact of the introduction of badges in Psychological Science; Hardwicke et al. (2018) assessed the impact of Cognition's mandatory data sharing policy. Both studies found policies to improve data sharing practices, but only assessed the impact of the policy for up to 25 months after its implementation. We aimed to examine the effect of these policies over a longer term by reusing their data and collecting a follow-up sample including articles published up until December 31 st , 2019. We fit generalized additive models as these allow for a more flexible assessment of the effect of time, which allows the identification of non-linear changes in the trend. These models were compared to generalized linear models to examine whether the non-linearity is needed. In journals that implemented a policy, data sharing statement rates increased over time and there was a level change in reusability. There was variability in the levels of increase, so we suggest future research should examine a larger number of policies to draw conclusions about their efficacy. We also encourage future research to investigate the barriers to data sharing specific to psychology subfields in order to identify the best interventions to tackle them.

**Tags:** 

---



**Name:**  NA

**Supervisor:**  

**Title:** 

**Abstract:** NA

**Tags:** 

---

