



## Surnames beginning with P {-}

**Name:**  Paterson

**Supervisor:**  

**Title:** 

**Abstract:** **Introduction: **The COVID-19 pandemic has brought about many lifestyle changes, including a huge reduction in in-person social contact. This presents a potential increase of social isolation in university students, yet research suggests social support may reduce the perception and effects of social isolation. Increased perceived social isolation has been correlated with poor sleep quality, which is an issue within the student population. This study examines the extent to which perceived social isolation and online social support predict university students' sleep quality throughout the COVID-19 pandemic.<br>
**Methods: **Currently enrolled university students aged 18-23 years (N = 121) completed online questionnaires, measuring sleep quality, perceived social isolation, perceived online social support and satisfaction with social interactions.<br>
**Results: **The results showed that poor sleep quality was a prevalent issue among the student sample, with 45% of them falling within the category for 'probable insomnia' (Espie et al., 2014). Perceived social isolation was also prevalent within the sample. Lower levels of perceived social isolation were significantly associated with better sleep quality. Regression analyses also revealed perceived social isolation and online social support as significant predictors of students' sleep. Participants living in student accommodation showed greatest levels of online social support, and least social isolation. No gender differences were found.<br>
**Discussion: **Findings were consistent with previous research. The study has contributed to research underpinning the relationship between social isolation and sleep quality, specifically in students. Efforts to develop intervention strategies, focused on providing effective and available online social support for university students will benefit clinical services, by aiming to reduce the issue of poor sleep quality in students. Future research should consider addressing the limitations of the present study by using more objective sleep measures, controlling for individual differences, and measuring received social support as well as perceived.

**Tags:** 

---
