



## Surnames beginning with V {-}

**Name:**  Valkamo

**Supervisor:**  

**Title:** 

**Abstract:** This study was the first to investigate the links between mindfulness, self-compassion, autistic traits, camouflaging, depression and anxiety in a non-clinical female sample. The aims of the study were to examine whether (i) autistic traits would positively predict camouflaging, (ii) whether mindfulness and self-compassion would negatively predict autistic traits and camouflaging, and (iii) whether mindfulness and self-compassion would explain variance in the relationship between autistic traits and camouflaging. Further, an exploratory analysis was conducted to investigate whether mindfulness and self-compassion would explain variance in the relationship between autism and self-compassion over and above depression and anxiety. 141 participants responded to an online survey composed of measures of autistic traits (BAPQ), camouflaging (CAT-Q), self-compassion (SCS), mindfulness (FFMQ), anxiety (STICSA Trait) and depression (DASS-D). Correlations between variables were calculated and two hierarchical linear regressions were performed. All the experimental hypotheses were supported, indicating that mindfulness and self-compassion may be important intervention targets for autistic individuals prone to camouflaging. Limitations of the current study will be discussed, as well as suggestions for future research and the implications for the female phenotype of autism.

**Tags:** 

---



**Name:**  Vitsakis

**Supervisor:**  

**Title:** 

**Abstract:** Data sharing has become a hallmark of reproducibility in psychological studies. However, data sharing is prone to privacy related vulnerabilities. Furthermore, the effects of data sharing on influencing the hypothesis generation process have been severely under-researched. This is potentially problematic considering that the format of data sharing or knowledge of relationships contained within the data might bias generated hypotheses. This pilot study builds on the need to research the hypothesis generation process by employing a novel experimental design. Two synthetic datasets were developed by simulating existing data which de-identified and anonymised them, one containing significant relationships between the data, and one containing no significant relationships. Combinations of these, alongside a codebook, were downloaded by participants (N=71) who were tasked with generating hypotheses based on the received files. While a one-way ANOVA showed no significant differences on how different formats of data sharing influence the number of generated hypotheses, these findings were deemed as inconclusive due to extremely small cell sizes. Furthermore, a logistic binomial regression comparing return rates between participants downloading their files to submitting hypotheses found no significant differences across conditions. A thematic analysis conducted on the generated hypotheses suggested that while most hypotheses displayed clear directionality, almost half of the hypotheses contained ambiguous wording or were generally untestable. Limitations of the study were also addressed, namely issues with sample and cell. Finally, suggestions towards future research were given, namely, to avoid power calculations using effect sizes found in this study but to employ sequential analyses and improved retention strategies to reach optimal participation rates across conditions.

**Tags:** 

---
