



## Surnames beginning with O {-}

**Name:**  O'Callaghan

**Supervisor:**  

**Title:** 

**Abstract:** Literature has identified a reluctancy amongst men to engage in psychological services, possibly as a result of conformity to traditional masculine norms. Furthermore, more negative attitudes towards help-seeking have been acknowledged in younger adults. The current study investigated the relationship between masculinity and help-seeking attitudes; and explored age and gender as factors which could influence these attitudes. The questionnaires administered were the Male Role Norms Inventory-Short Form (MRNI-SF) and the Inventory of Attitudes Toward Seeking Mental Health Services (IASMHS).  One hundred and forty-five participants (102 female; 42 male; 1 nonbinary) were recruited.  Older adults (41-65 years old) elicited higher scores on the IASMHS than younger adults (18-40 years old), therefore, younger people demonstrated more negative attitudes towards help-seeking. Men scored higher on the MRNI-SF, indicating stronger conformity to masculine norms. Moreover, women yielded higher scores on the IASMHS than men, establishing that females hold more positive attitudes towards help-seeking. Negative correlations were found between IASMHS and MRNI-SF scores for both men and women. Thus, showing that higher masculinity results in more negative attitudes in both genders. A regression analysis indicated that MRNI-SF scores predicted IASMHS scores.  The results of this study provide additional research to suggest that traditional masculine ideology acts as a significant obstacle for help-seeking. This has important implications for future clinical practice concerning mental health.

**Tags:** 

---



**Name:**  Owen

**Supervisor:**  

**Title:** 

**Abstract:** Current literature posits that popularity for electronic entertainment devices (EEDs) for example social media sites (SM) and video games (VGs) especially for young adults in Western Societies are rapidly growing (Clement et al, 2019 & Peracchia & Curcio, 2018). With an estimated 2.65 billion active SMS users worldwide and with 89% of adolescents admitting to having at least one form of media appliance in their sleep environment, EED usage is now ubiquitous amongst young adults (Anderson & Jiang, 2018 & Gradisar & Czeisler, 2013). Current literature has influenced attitudes that are heavily averse to SM and VGs with a large volume of evidence suggesting that EED's for leisure and communication (VGs & SMS) negatively impact sleep quality, duration, hygiene and health and wellbeing (Carter et al, 2016, Woods & Scott, 2016 & Rehbein et al 2010). Whilst there has been a wide amount of quantitative literature exploring the positivist cause and effect relationship of EEDs on curtailed sleep my research has revealed some alarming gaps in the literature. There is little research addressing emerging young adults/adolescents lived experience regarding SM and VG in a qualitative setting. Therefore, this paper ran an inductive reflexive thematic analysis utilising focus group interviews on (N=20) students aged 18-25 to explore their adolescent lived experiences of nocturnal EED usage. The aim was understanding student lived experience of sleep and the impact of playing VGs and using SM on curtailed sleep. Our analysis produced five overarching themes: "Fear of Missing Out", "Generational Differences", "Gender Differences", "VGs Dictate Bedtime but SM Dictates Sleep" and "Barriers to Sleep". This analysis offers valuable insight into the student lived experience of curtailed sleep as regards SM and VGs and offers insights into conclusions and future research withstanding its own limitations.

**Tags:** 

---

